Objection interpreter (#6)
stalniy/ucast: packages/objection/README.md

# UCAST Objection

[![@ucast/objection NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ucast%2Fobjection.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ucast%2Fobjection)
[![](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/%40ucast%2Fobjection.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/%40ucast%2Fobjection)

This package is a part of [ucast] ecosystem. It provides a parser that can parse [Objection query](https://vincit.github.io/objection.js/api/query-builder/) into conditions AST.

[ucast]: https://github.com/stalniy/ucast

## Installation

```sh
npm i @ucast/objection
# or
yarn add @ucast/objection
# or
pnpm add @ucast/objection
```

## Getting Started

### Interpret conditions AST

First of all, you need AST to interpret it. For the sake of an example, we will create it manually:

```js
import { CompoundCondition, FieldCondition } from '@ucast/core';
import { interpret } from '@ucast/objection';
import { Model } from 'objection';

class User extends Model {
  static tableName = 'users'
}

// x > 5 && y < 10
const condition = new CompoundCondition('$and', [
  new FieldCondition('$gt', 'x', 5),
  new FieldCondition('$lt', 'y', 10),
]);

> interpret(condition, User.query()); // select users.* from users where x > 5 and y < 10

Author: totally

```

**Pay attention**, all operators has `$` prefix. This was done to make sure that names of operators doesn't intersects with JavaScript reversed words (e.g., `in`). This also helps to support tree shaking (so, it's possible to `export const $in = ...`);

> * supports dot notation to access related table values in conditions:

Reviewer: I'd recommend to make it a separate section: `Conditions on related table`. Because I guess this is one of the questions which will arise eventually from community. 

```suggestion
### Conditions on related table

Interpreter automatically joins related table and adds condition on its column, when the corresponding field in AST contains `.` (dot). For example:

  ```js
  const condition = new FieldCondition('$eq', 'address.street', 'some street');
  interpret(condition, User.query()); // select users.* from users inner join address on user.id = address.user_id where address.street = 'some street'
  ```

### Custom interpreter

> Sometimes you may want to reduce (or restrict) amount of supported operators (e.g., to utilize tree-shaking and reduce bundle size). To do this you can create interpreter manually:

Reviewer: The part about tree-shaking doesn't make sense for backend (at least for now).

```suggestion
Sometimes you may want to add custom operator or restrict supported operators. To do this, you can create interpreter manually:
```

```js
import { createObjectionInterpreter, $eq, $lt, $gt } from '@ucast/objection';

const interpret = new createObjectionInterpreter(({ $eq, $lt, $gt });
const condition = new FieldCondition('$eq', 'x', true);

interpret(condition, User.query()); // select * from users where x = true
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To add a custom operator, all you need to do is to create a function that applies `Condition` to passed in `ObjectionQueryBuilder`. Let's create an operator, that adds condition on `publishedAt` field of an `Article`:

```ts
import { DocumentCondition } from '@ucast/core';
import { ObjectionOperator, createObjectionInterpreter, allInterpreters } from '@ucast/objection';

const $isActive: ObjectionOperator<DocumentCondition<boolean>> = (node, query) => {
  const operator = node.value ? '>=' : '<';
  return query.where('publishedAt', operator, new Date());
};

const interpret = createObjectionInterpreter({ ...allInterpreters, $isActive });
const condition = new DocumentCondition('$isActive', true);

interpret(condition, Article.query()); // Article.query().where('publishedAt', '>=', new Date())
```
